[Music]
ten amazing things you did before you
were born the life of an embryo is way
more exciting than you could possibly
imagine
whether it's thumb sucking or listening
to your favorite tunes there's so much
fun going on in there hit the like
button and get ready to find out more
about your life in your mother's womb
one tasting food by week nine in the
womb babies have developed a mouth
tongue and small taste buds they get the
nutrition they need from amniotic fluid
the flavor of whatever mom is eating
goes through her bloodstream right into
that fluid at week 15 babies can
differentiate sweet flavors from salty
ones and even start to develop a
preference so whenever mom is having a
brownie or cupcakes embryos swallow more
amniotic fluid and enjoy dessert along
with her whenever she's having garlic or
ginger known for their strong bitter
taste the little ones swallow less fluid
what's even crazier studies have proven
that babies can develop a love for
certain foods their mom made a lot of
during pregnancy now you know where your
fondness of bacon most likely comes from
- sucking a thumb at week 12 and your
mom's belly you started doing something
pretty adorable this is when you started
sucking your thumb ah embryos do this
for comfort and to explore their cool
newly accessible body parts that's
because at this time the arms become
long enough to reach the mouth
scientists say that flexing the hands
touching the face and sucking the thumb
are all signs of healthy development
Plus parents get beyond excited when
they see that on the ultrasound 3
dreaming and yawning babies in the womb
have sleep cycles week 32 or even
earlier is the time they go through
their first REM cycle in other words
they start dreaming just like we do
some scientists question this since we
can't monitor embryonic brainwaves just
yet however most of them agree it's true
so I wonder what they dream about
besides dreaming embryos have also
mastered yawning it's not just cute
but also a sign that the baby is
developing all right Durham University
psychologist dr. Naja riceland believes
yawning at this stage proves that the
central nervous system is maturing as it
should
yawning could be the stimulus it needs
to work properly for distinguishing
voices and tunes if you ever ask a
pregnant woman to talk to her baby bump
you might be surprised to see her belly
react babies distinguish and love
hearing their mom's voice before they're
even born research has shown that
language and communication skills
actually start developing in the womb it
doesn't only work with mom's voice if
you play the same tune to an unborn baby
it'll be able to recognize a song a few
weeks after birth there was even an
experiment conducted to prove this moms
to be played twinkle twinkle little star
loudly during their final trimester of
pregnancy a few days after the babies
were born scientists played the same
tune and studied the newborns brain
activity they were definitely excited to
hear the familiar song again more than
that the little ones could feel it when
some notes were replaced with others
it's called pre conscious learning and
it's pretty awesome right five crying a
phenomenon known as silent crying
develops in embryos at 28 weeks
researchers discovered this after
stimulating babies with a low decibel
noise and recording the reaction on an
ultrasound
the scientists were even able to notice
the baby's bottom lips tremble silent
crying is a way for them to express
sadness over something negative that's
happened to them and what could that
possibly be well babies are not only
physically connected to their moms but
also emotionally a group of pregnant
women in Australia watched a sad movie
for 20 minutes
their sadness was felt by their babies
embryos can also get scared when mom
sneezes or a dog is barking somewhere
nearby before you feel too bad for these
unborn babies note that crying is an
important tool for communication they'll
need when they enter the world and just
think of how advanced the brain must be
at that stage to be able to receive a
distressing signal recognize it and give
the right response to it 6 peeing this
one is kind of gross but still really
interesting how do they do it and where
does the urine go I hate to break it to
you but it actually stays right there in
the womb so we were all floating in our
own urine once upon a time and there's
no shame in it the production of urine
starts by the end of the first trimester
and is a good sign that the kidneys are
working properly
babies swallow the amniotic fluid digest
it and then it passes through the
kidneys and right into the uterus
they actually urinate every 45 minutes
it has no smell and it's sterile so it's
not as gross as it sounds 7 pooping
before you get totally disgusted by this
one let me clear it up not all babies
actually defecate in the womb but we all
do accumulate stuff that could be
considered embryonic poop we already
know that we feed on nutrients and
oxygen before we come into the world
it's mostly filtered by the placenta and
goes back to mom for her to get rid of
what stays in the womb is mucus bile
some body hair and intestinal cells this
all turns into something called meconium
a green sticky sterile substance that's
the first official poop of your life
babies that are overdue or had some
stress in mom's belly can actually poop
before they're born but it's uncommon
according to a report at the University
of California San Francisco doctors find
traces of meconium in the amniotic fluid
in 10 to 20% of all deliveries 8
breathing underwater
you probably can't hold your breath
underwater for more than a few seconds
now but as an embryo you kinda used to
breathe underwater at 27 weeks in the
womb of baby's lungs start expanding and
compressing as the diaphragm and chest
muscles start contracting in rhythm it's
called practice breathing since it
doesn't involve oxygen but admit it it's
pretty cool that all this is going on
inside a bag of amniotic fluid this
breathing practice is important because
it prepares the baby for the real thing
outside the womb 9 getting the hiccups
in the sixth month of pregnancy embryos
give their mothers a fun time when they
start getting hiccups that make the
belly jump up not all babies get them
but most do a few times a day many
doctors believe hiccups are a sign of
healthy lung development they should
stop or become much less frequent by
week 32 of pregnancy 10 smiling let's
finish the list with something we all
love to see a big happy smile babies
practice smiling along with other facial
expressions inside the womb scientists
used to believe we learned a smile from
our mothers after we're born but with
today's highly developed medical
equipment like 4d scanners we now know
that smiling is a reflex we have before
birth that prepares us for the real
thing after we're born which of these
facts do you think is the craziest let's
discuss it in the comments section make
sure to give this video a thumbs up if
you found it fun and if you're new to
our channel be sure to subscribe if you
want to be the first to get our cool
updates
stay with us on the bright side of life